# Magic
##3 kinds of Caster
### Traditional
- begin with three battlefield spells from the spellbook of their magical tradition. 
- can learn spells only from their magical tradition.
- can also perform rituals .
- learn new spells through studying with a mentor.
### Research
- begin with two battlefield spells from the spellbooks of any magical traditions.
- can learn spells from any magical tradition 
-  can also perform rituals
-  To learn new spells, they must expand their knowledge by seeking out research materials, typically ancient, esoteric tomes and manuscripts.
Such materials are usually gained during adventures, feeding research during downtime. Alternatively, your research spellcaster can learn from a mentor or directly from a supernatural entity.
- A research spellcaster may learn any spell they discover, though they will find this more difficult than if they were a traditional spellcaster, and they may find that some spells are too enmeshed in the lore of a particular magical tradition to be learned by an outsider.
  
### Dabbling
- begin with either one standard battlefield spell or two flawed spells from the spellbooks of any magical traditions.
- may attempt to learn any spell they come across in the same way as a researcher, but each new spell your dabbler learns is flawed and automatically suffers a complication when cast.
- can also perform rituals 
> Flawed Spells: When a dabbler learns a new spell, that spell is a flawed version—the character has learned the core principles of the spell but is ignorant of its nuances, making the spell less effective and harder to control. A flawed spell is affected in the following ways:
- When you cast a flawed spell, you automatically suffer one complication, in addition to any generated by the skill test. In other words, even if you cast the spell successfully, it is considered a miscast (see Miscast Spells and Rituals on page 64).
- Any specific uses of Success levels the spell would normally have may not be used when you cast a flawed version of that spell.
- 
Some spell profiles have a Flawed section, which specifies adjustments made when a character uses a flawed version of the spell in question.

To remove a spell’s flawed status, a dabbler must cast it successfully at least once in-game (not during downtime), and then they must refine their knowledge of it through practice and study during downtime between adventures (see Learning New Spells and Rituals on page 62). They may not spend that downtime engaging in other significant activities.

MISCAST SPELLS AND RITUALS
Due to the power a spellcaster or ritualist wields, even the slightest break in their concentration can cause their magic to spiral out of control. Any spell or ritual that generates a complication is considered to be miscast.
Complications caused by a miscast spell or ritual are much more unpredictable and devastating than those from other tests. The gamemaster is encouraged to apply their creativity, ingenuity, and sense of fun and to indulge in devious invention when adjudicating the results of a complication caused by miscasting.
If a spell is successfully cast or a ritual successfully performed, its spell effect or outcome still occurs even if it is miscast: complications cannot turn success into failure, and miscasts can only produce additional or unintentional consequences.



The practice of magic is divided into two disciplines. The first is Evocation, or Battlefield magic, shorter-term enchantments of instant effect and brief duration-spells, curses, hexes, charms, and blessings, which are used primarily in combat and out in the field, away from the controlled conditions necessary for lengthier rites.


The second discipline, Thaumaturgy, or ritual magic, is longer in form, more complicated, and more intricate; it is also immensely more powerful. This is the magic that characters use to communicate with, and summon, supernatural alien beings and malevolent forces previously unknown to this world; to travel between the planes of existence; or to effect permanent and lasting change on the mortal plane.



### PREPARING BATTLEFIELD SPELLS
BINDING BATTLEFIELD SPELLS
Spells—also called battlefield spells—are prepared in advance of conflict and held in the spellcaster’s mantle, a totemic object or other significant item such as a wand or runestone that a spellcaster uses to “store” bound spells. This allows them to unleash the power of those spells quickly and without elaborate rituals. When a bound spell is added to a spellcaster’s mantle, it can be held for as long as the spellcaster remains conscious. Bound spells do not miscast if the spellcaster becomes unconscious—they dissipate safely.
A spell cannot be cast if it has not been prepared by binding it to a spellcaster’s mantle first—an unbound spell is knowledge without the power to make it real. A spellcaster can bind a number of spells in their mantle equal to their power rating (see Power on page 65), and each bound spell can be cast as many times as the spellcaster desires, though they pay a cost each time they attempt to cast it, as described in the spell’s profile.
Binding spells to a mantle requires a skill test with a difficulty of 0, and it takes a number of minutes equal to the combined difficulty of the spells being prepared. The attribute and skill used to bind spells varies: traditional spellcasters use Insight + Survival, research spellcasters use Reason + Academia, and dabbling spellcasters use Will + Resilience. Once the spells are bound, a spellcaster’s mantle contains the chosen spells until the spellcaster sleeps or is otherwise rendered unconscious.
To cast a spell, a spellcaster must first prepare their Focus with the spells they wish to bind to it. A Focus is a significant item such as a wand, staff, or runestone that a spellcaster uses to "store" bound spells. This allows them to unleash the power of those spells quickly and without elaborate rituals.

A spellcaster can bind a number of spells to a Focus equal to their Willpower. Preparing these spells requires a skill test with a CT of ??, and it takes a number of minutes equal to the combined difficulty of the spells being prepared. The attribute and skill used to bind a spell varies: 
 Once the spells are bound, a spellcaster's Focus contains the chosen spells until the spellcaster sleeps or is otherwise rendered unconscious. Bound spells do not miscast if the spellcaster becomes unconscious.




LEARNING NEW SPELLS
AND RITUALS
After character creation is complete, additional spells and rituals must be learned independently, usually via a mentor or a tome of occult knowledge. Spells and rituals require extensive study and practice to perfect; thus, new ones may be learned only during downtime between adventures. The learning process is an arduous and mentally draining one, often requiring the attainment of new insights into the true nature of reality and accompanied by fitful nights filled with harrowing dreams. Many trials may be needed to practice and perfect the casting.
Regardless of how a spellcaster or ritualist attempts to learn new material, they may only study one new spell or ritual at a time: they may not attempt to study a new one until they have learned the previous one or abandoned progress on it.
A traditional spellcaster may learn new spells and rituals only directly from a mentor or from the framework of their own magical tradition. This is not a formal and fixed process; it occurs when the mentor has deemed the spellcaster worthy or wise enough for new capabilities, or in the case of some pressing need to receive the new esoteric knowledge. Due to the guidance the spellcaster receives, the learning process takes less time than it does for researchers and dabblers.
To learn a new spell or ritual, a traditional spellcaster must do the following:
i
Spend a number of hours in study with their mentor or a similar teacher from their tradition equal to twice the spell or ritual’s difficulty. This may be spread across several consecutive days, but no less than two hours must be spent in study per day. If the spellcaster goes a day without study, they must start over from scratch.
i
Suffer 2 fatigue for each full day spent in study. A full day’s rest automatically removes this fatigue.
i
Obtain ingredients, tools, and other materials with a combined Restriction rating equal to the difficulty of the spell or ritual being learned.
i
Spend 10 XP.
i
Make an Insight + Survival test with a difficulty equal to that of the spell or ritual. Passing the test means the spell or ritual has been learned successfully, and the spellcaster will be able to cast it or perform it during the next adventure. Failing this test means that the spell or ritual has not been completely learned, and the spellcaster must repeat their time in study after the next adventure to finish learning it.
Most research spellcasters acquire their knowledge directly from dusty tomes, hidden manuscripts, and other forbidden sources of ancient wisdom and dangerous knowledge; others learn from a mentor or supernatural entity. Due to the lack of guidance or less established process in most cases, or the more cryptic guidance they receive from a supernatural entity, these spellcasters’ learning process takes more time than it does for traditional spellcasters.
To learn a new spell or ritual, a research spellcaster must do
the following:
i
Spend a number of hours equal to four times the spell or ritual’s difficulty studying texts and other research materials. This may be spread across several consecutive days, but no less than four hours must be spent in study each day. If the spellcaster goes a day without study, they must start over from scratch.
i
Suffer 4 fatigue for each day spent in study. A full day’s rest automatically removes this fatigue.
i
Obtain ingredients, tools, and other materials with a combined Restriction rating equal to the difficulty of the spell or ritual being learned + 1.
i
Spend 10 XP.
i
Make a Reason + Academia test with a difficulty equal to that of the spell or ritual + 1. Passing the test means the spell or ritual has been learned successfully, and the character will be able to cast or perform it during the next adventure. Failing this test means that the spell or ritual has not been completely learned, and the spellcaster must repeat their time in study after the next adventure to finish learning it.
Dabbling spellcasters gain an incomplete understanding of magic in any number of numerous ways, most often having stumbled upon scrolls or tomes of sacred or forbidden knowledge and spending time in focused study. Others glean secrets by listening in on occult practitioners, perhaps stealing notes or scribbling copies of glimpsed scrolls and seeking to replicate them. Others may have received such lore amid strange dreams. Similarly, both dabblers and non-spellcasters may have occasion to learn a mystical ritual vital to their future success, though for a ritual to be successful, such individuals must acquire a relatively complete and comprehensive description of its steps and requirements, either in writing or by verbal instruction. Rituals that are only partially or incompletely known always fail.
To learn a new spell or ritual, a dabbler must do the following. A non-spellcaster uses the same process to learn a new ritual, although they cannot learn spells:
i
Spend several hours studying fragments of occult texts, experimenting, and interpreting bizarre dreams. The total time required in hours is determined by rolling a number of equal to twice the spell or ritual’s difficulty but no less than an hour must be spent in study each day. This may be spread across several consecutive days, but no less than an hour must be spent in study each day. If the spellcaster goes a day without study, they must start over from scratch.
Chapter 4 - Magic
i Suffer 2 fatigue for each day spent in study, plus additional
fatigue equal to the number of effects rolled when
determining the amount of study required. A full day’s rest
automatically removes this fatigue.
i Obtain ingredients, tools, and other materials with a
combined Restriction rating equal to the difficulty of the
spell or ritual being learned + 2.
i Spend 10 XP.
i Make a Will + Resilience test with a difficulty equal to
that of the spell or ritual + 1. Passing the test means the
spell or ritual has been learned, and the spellcaster or
ritualist will be able to cast or perform it during the next
adventure. However, if it is a spell, it is in a flawed state
and is subject to some limitations (see Flawed Spells on
page 61). Failing this test means that the spell or ritual
has not been completely learned, and the spellcaster
must repeat their time in study after the next adventure
to finish learning it.
A dabbler may repeat their learning process on a flawed spell
to refine their method for it and remove its flawed status.
However, in order to refine a flawed spell, they must have cast it
successfully at least once in-game in its flawed state.

#### Learning Spells and Complications
As learning new spells and rituals requires a skill test, the process has an inherent risk of complications. These complications can have any of the standard results, but certain complications especially suit the hazards of learning magic:
- The character looses 1 Resolve. Learning magic strains the mind and leaves the spirit weary, and it takes time to recover. Complications can increase the toll that this process takes.
- The character’s study has drawn the attention of something dangerous and otherworldly. What has found the character, when it will arrive or make itself known, and what form its attention will take are left to the GM’s discretion.
- The character begins the next adventure with 1 fewer Fortune point, as luck and fate seem to have turned against them.
- The GM adds to Doom. As learning new spells and rituals is done between adventures, any Doom generated is added to the pool the GM starts the next adventure with, and the character’s nightmares are plagued by foreboding omens. 



> **Rituals: Roleplay vs. Extended Test**
> The extended test format of a ritual reflects the amount of work needed to complete it, over and above the work represented by a single skill test. Rituals take time and concentrated effort. However, if characters have ample time (particularly during a standard scene) or the circumstances aren’t challenging, roleplaying a ritual can be just as rewarding as managing it via an extended test.
> 
> Extended tests work best for rituals in situations involving danger, limited time, or significant uncertainty about whether the ritual can be performed successfully.
