# Ireena’s Journal
### Sunday 8th day of Fallrise, 735 BC

The nerve of him. How could Ismark do this without even consulting me. It’s not him the devil has bitten not once but twice! But he’s right, this is the only way. And at least if I’m in Vallaki I can help those Barovians who have fled there. How many made it? I dare not let my mind wander as to what those poor souls endured on the road.  

Father is buried. And Doru is not lost. I have faith in him. If he can keep the monster within at bay, then perhaps hope does exist in this land. I wasn’t sure I could trust the visitors beyond the mists but after hearing of them giving Doru the chance to prove himself, the humanity in a world with so little... perhaps these visitors are trustworthy after all. Time will tell, Strahd has so many spies. I wish I knew what he wanted with me. Why is he obsessed with me? That bastard can’t have me. I will do what I must. As father did. Oh father I wish you were here. If not for me, then for Ismark. I fear he bears too much. Perhaps all leaders do regardless of their circumstances.  

We depart this afternoon, but first I will go to Lugdanna’s Knoll and retrieve the box Mother and I buried all those years ago. I care only for the memories we made together. That ancient bracelet I was holding when Father found me, perhaps I can bargain for it on the journey.  Maybe someone in Vallaki will know who Tatyana is. I’ve spent enough of my time in this life wondering who I am with no answers and now pursued by the devil himself. Well today is the day that I take matters into my own hands. I’ll help my people and in doing so maybe I’ll finally receive the answers I need.  
I’m glad to at least have the company of these visitors. The thought of doing this alone... impossible. It is strange, so many Barovians dream of the land beyond the mists, but these men and dwarf bear scars seen and not that would bring many to their knees. Still, at least they know the warmth of the sun. Sometimes in my dreams the sun is shining, and it feels so real.  

Perhaps one day, the sun will return to Barovia.

### Moonday 9th day of Fallrise

We made it to Tser Pool but not without incident and not without the graciousness of that devil. He knows no bounds and there is nothing he doesn’t see in this land. He knew so much about the visitors and they have only been here a day. His spies are everywhere, they need to be more careful. If not, we’ll end up like the poor Lansten Family and so many others. A whole family turned to zombies. I wept for them in the night as I have for all those lost since Strahd woke and took vengence upon Barovia. But their bodies no longer harbour their souls, their fight is over. We were able to send the zombie horde away and found a cache of weapons left by Rudolf Van Richten. I wonder what has become of him?  
It was after this, at the crossroads that Strahd appeared, like an apparition, coming from our very same destination, Tser Pool. He thinks himself a gentlemen as he grasps the lives of men in his palms and squeezes. The way he looks at me makes my skin crawl. I was surprised the visitors were able to hold themselves back from his insults. Especially Radmill. Strahd loaths all humans but it would seem he loaths the lives of dwarfs even more. Bogokom and Radmil did well to reason with Strahd though. He could have taken me right then and there. Is this all just some sick game to him?  
Poor Escher. Another soul lost to the darkness and forced to drive carriage for the devil. I was more than relieved when he finally departed but his game was not over. I don’t know what Radmill saw in that hanging man but his despair was intense. Perhaps the evil in this land is fraying these visitors more than I anticipated. I’ll keep an eye on them. Not all wounds bear visible scars and if left to fester can prove to be even more fatal than the bow or sword.

Further up the road, we saved a Raven who was being attacked by an abomination of feather and stick. A living scarecrow. Virgil fought valiantly and Vix proved himself a capable sorcerer. Magic is rare among the people of Barovia, I am glad he is with us.  

We finally made it to Tser Pool only to learn of our cryptic fates. Madam Eva’s gifts are astounding but in true Vistani fashion, make almost no sense at all. Perhaps the path ahead will shed light on the fates of these mysterious visitors. Her words seemed to burn in my mind until I wrote them out.  

She warned of a spy approaching and when we left the tent Eliza and Arturi were waiting. I do not trust either of them but if we let on that we know they could be one of Strahd’s servants all could be lost. Strahd will learn that Madam Eva is working to destroy the darnkess that grips Barovia. There it is. Hope.

I’ve heard many tales about Vistani hospitality, and last night exceeded all expectations. The fire was a welcome reprieve after our first day on the road.  I am glad for the Game of Stories, to have learned more of my companions. I am convinced however that the land beyond the mists is no better than this. Hatred and greed know no boundaries. I can’t believe it was the Vistani themselves that saved Strahd hundreds of years ago and for it have been granted safe passage through his realm ever since! If only they had left him to die then perhaps none of this misery would have befallen Barovia. I had never quite heard the myth of the Holy Symbol of Ravenkind quite how Eliza described it. Madam Eva spoke of a holy symbol of great hope in her card reading. Perhaps after I have ensured my people’s protection in Barovia I will convince my companions to investigate Yester Hill.  

