TraIned mounts There are two types of training: riding-trained and war trained. A war-trained mount is a mount that has gone through extensive training to desensitize it to the chaos of battle. The training takes six months and costs 300gp under normal circumstances. But as a GM, you can provide war-trained camels for purchase in your desert campaign, for example. Intelligent mounts such as a unicorn or pegasus do not require war-training, and they act on their own initiative if they agree to be mounted. 
Trained RIDER Any rider who is proficient in Animal Handling is considered a trained rider. On their turn, a trained rider can have the mount move its speed, then either use the Dodge, Disengage, or Dash action on their shared turn. They can fight normally while mounted, and they and their mount act on the same initiative count. Only a trained rider can use a riding-trained mount in combat. A DC 12 Wisdom (Animal Handing) check is required every round to prevent the mount from panicking and bolting. If the mount sustains any kind of damage, a new animal handling check must be rolled immediately. The DC is 12 + the damage sustained. A trained rider can mount and dismount by using half of their movement. 
untRaIned RIdeR An untrained rider can only fight from a war-trained mount. On their turn, an untrained rider can have the mount move its speed. They can use their own action to have the mount Dodge, Disengage, or Dash. They also have disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. Additionally an untrained rider must use their full movement to mount or dismount, and if an untrained rider enters combat on a riding-trained mount, the mount will bolt. 

tRaIned and untRaIned RIdeRs • The rider forgoes their own movement and instead uses the mount's movement. • The rider can draw a weapon as part of the mount's movement. • The rider's threatened spaces are from the edge of the mount's space. boltInG A mount that bolts has the frightened condition for one minute. It will attempt to flee the source of danger. It will also attempt to throw the rider as it flees. The rider must succeed a DC 15 Wisdom (Animal Handling) check or be thrown. Apply falling damage. I generally allow a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to avoid damage.

new fIGhtInG style: mounted You are considered trained in mounted combat. You can also force a single attack roll targeted at your mount to target you instead. This fighting style should be available to all classes that use fighting styles, such as fighter, paladin and ranger.

new feat: mounted ChaRGeR Your training with a lance while mounted has given you mastery of the weapon, making you deadly against foes while charging. If your mount first moves more than 20ft directly toward an enemy and you hit with a lance, the weapon does 2d12 + STR damage instead of 1d12. If your mount first moves more than 10ft you can ride down opponents who are one size category smaller than your mount or smaller. When entering an enemy space, the mount's speed is reduced by half. Any enemy caught in the path can make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check vs. the mount's Strength (Athletics). The mount rolls with advantage. If the mount wins, the enemy is shoved up to 10 feet, takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage, and is knocked prone. The mount can ride down up to three creatures this way.

from [Old School House Rules for 5E RPGs by Castle Clark](https://preview.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/446004/old-school-house-rules-for-5e-rpgs)
