In this arc, upon gaining entry to Krezk, the players must ascend to the Abbey of Saint Markovia, where they are destined to meet their foretold ally against Strahd. Upon their arrival, the Abbot can provide the players with a brief tour and history of the Abbey, as well as inform them that the Vistana monster-hunter Ezmerelda d’Avenir has been a guest of the Abbey in recent days. If the players have arrived before the third night after the full moon, the Abbot informs the players that Ezmerelda is away and will return soon. If the players have arrived on or after the third night after the full moon, the Abbot leads them to Ezmerelda, who is glad to join their efforts—on the condition that they help her save Krezk from the Abbot’s madness.
### L1. The [[Village of Krezk]]
The players’ first journey to Krezk is as described in _**[[Arc J. The Walls of Krezk]].**_ However, if the players have already completed _**[[Arc K. The Stolen Gem]]**_ and the Martikovs have delivered a shipment of wine to the village, Baron Krezkov has already heard of the players’ exploits and gladly allows them entry. (The Krezkov and Martikov families have long been close, ever since an heir of the Martikov clan married a member of the Krezkov family and inherited ownership of the Wizard of Wines winery. If the players have aided the Martikovs, Baron Krezkov feels he owes them a debt of personal gratitude.) The village of Krezk is as described in S3. Village of Krezk (p. 145). Once the players are within the village walls, Baron Krezkov is glad to share any or all of the information provided in Krezk Lore (p. 146). If the players found Ilya Krezkov’s location in _**[[Arc J. The Walls of Krezk]]**_ or completed _**[[Arc K. The Stolen Gem]]**_, the Baron invites the players to stay as guests in his family’s home. If the players mention their interest in the Abbey of Saint Markovia, Baron Krezkov’s expression becomes stony and cold. He warns the players that the Abbot is a cruel and capricious creature, and further shares the Abbey’s sordid history and the strange rumors surrounding the Abbot. The players can convince the Baron to discuss his personal enmity toward the Abbot with a successful DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check, though he declines to do so until they have arrived at his home.

##### The Baron’s Grief 
The Krezkov family has a secret: ever since a werewolf bit the Krezkov heir eighty years ago, some of the family’s direct descendants have been natural-born lycanthropes. Because these descendants are not the product of a union between two werewolves, they are born without the benefits of their curse, which emerges only on the night of the first full moon after their thirteenth birthday. Today, Baron Dmitri Krezkov is a **werewolf**, as is his thirteen-year-old son, Ilya Krezkov. Baroness Anna Krezkova, who married into the family, does not share the curse. Their eight-year-old daughter, Kala Krezkova, is too young to know whether she also shares the curse. (Baron Krezkov also has an elder sister, [[Zuleika Toranescu]] née Krezkova, a **werewolf** who abdicated her position as heir to join her lover, the **werewolf** [[Emil Toranescu]], as a member of the Lake Baratok werewolf pack twelve years ago.) Each month, on the night of the full moon, Baroness Krezkova harvests a wolfsbane flower from the shores of Krezk’s blessed pool and brews a _potion of wolfsbane_, which she gives to Baron Krezkov to suppress the curse’s aggression. She then locks the Baron in silver shackles in the hidden basement beneath their cottage, where he transforms into a docile wolf at moonrise. Until recently, both Ilya and Kala were ignorant as to their family’s true nature, which their parents have kept a careful secret from both the village and their children.

One month ago, while constructing the **flesh golem** [[Vasilka]], [[the Abbot]] of the [[Abbey of Saint Markovia]] determined that his creation required a living human heart, given willingly to strengthen its potency in “matters of the heart.” After reviewing the family cemeteries within the village, the Abbot learned that Baroness Krekova was, in fact, a direct descendant of Nimira Antonova—Tatyana Federovna’s most recent reincarnation—and decided that she would therefore be a perfect candidate for Vasilka’s completion. The Abbot, however, knew that the Baroness would never give him her heart willingly—and so, he developed a dark and cunning plot. As a celestial, the Abbot could sense the scent of lycanthropy upon Baron Krezkov and his son, Ilya. Through the use of his _**change shape**_ ability, the Abbot appeared to Ilya in the form of Ilya’s long-absent aunt, Zuleika. "Zuleika" revealed to Ilya that he and his father's line were werewolves—misunderstood creatures once feared and respected as enemies of Strahd. She claimed, however, that Strahd had corrupted their bloodline by convincing his ancestors to poison themselves with wolfsbane and silver, removing some of his most powerful enemies. "Zuleika" told Ilya that she had abandoned Krezk because she refused to accept the family's poison, fearing that Strahd might one day rise again. She told Ilya that he shared the blood of great warriors, and that, by embracing his curse, he could protect his family and neighbors in the calamity of Strahd's reawakening. To do so, "Zuleika" told him, he must pretend to drink the potion his mother provided him on the night of the full moon, and secretly discard its contents to fool her. She warned him to tell no one of their conversation—and especially not his parents.

Ilya, unwilling to believe that he or his parents were werewolves, rejected “Zuleika’s” story with anger and disbelief. But when, several days later, his parents informed him of his lycanthropic heritage, his world was shattered—and the Abbot's words filled the void to take its place. On the night of the full moon, Ilya fooled his mother into believing he had drunk the _potion of wolfsbane_, but secretly poured it out in the earth of the family garden. That night, he transformed into a fearsome and aggressive werewolf, destroying his restraints and embarking on a rampage across the village—killing his younger sister, Kala, in the process. By midnight, Ilya had vanished from the village, fleeing the villagers' weapons and clambering across the walls to escape into the Svalich Wood. The following morning, the Abbot's messengers—Otto and Zygfrek Belview—approached the grieving Krezkovs and invited them to an audience at the Abbey. There, the Abbot promised to restore Kala's life—on the condition that the Baroness offer her own heart to the Abbot in trade. Baron Krezkov, horrified, watched helplessly as his wife gladly accepted the Abbot's offer. The Abbot resurrected Kala immediately as a sign of good faith. Then, in an attempted act of mercy, he allowed the Baroness two weeks to bid her goodbyes before returning to the Abbey to surrender her heart. Should she fail to return, he warned her, he would come himself to collect—and her entire village would pay the price.